Progress Report - March 2021 (#269)
yuzu-emu/yuzu-emu.github.io: site/content/entry/yuzu-progress-report-mar-2021/index.md

This limitation can cause issues for certain regions like Asia when trying to build our source.
Morph bypassed this limitation [by forcing the UTF-8 character set.](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6029)
As an added benefit, some UI elements like up and down arrows started rendering. Free extra.

{{< imgs
	"./utf8.png| "
  >}}

While ton of work is needed to make `MONSTER HUNTER RISE` run, including finishing the shader decompiler rewrite, and implementing the asynchronous software keyboard, that doesn’t mean [ogniK](https://github.com/ogniK5377) can’t start some preliminary work.
In this particular case the focus is to improvie [`Parental Control` emulation,](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6112) bringing it closer to the Switch’s native hardware implementation.

## Graphic improvements

Since the introduction of `Asynchronous shaders`, we noticed that not all drivers like the feature.
In particular, Intel Windows OpenGL, and the proprietary AMD drivers (for both Windows with Adrenalin, and Linux with AMDGPU-PRO) despise the setting, with Intel ignoring it at a driver level, and AMD outright skipping frames, resulting in massive stuttering.

> [toastUnlimited](https://github.com/lat9nq) [added a blacklist](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6095) for our red and blue GPU users, ensuring no performance or graphical regressions will be experienced when using a feature that their drivers can’t support in OpenGL anyway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[toastUnlimited](https://github.com/lat9nq) [added a blacklist](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6095) for our red and blue GPU users, ensuring no performance or graphical regressions occur while attempting to use a feature that their drivers can’t support in OpenGL anyway.
```

It’s worth mentioning that Asynchronous shaders work as intended in Vulkan and all free Linux OpenGL drivers, be it from AMD or Intel. Nvidia works as expected on any combination of API or OS with their proprietary drivers.
Thanks to [theboy181](https://github.com/theboy181) for the suggestion!

[bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei) implemented an optimization that affects all graphic caches (texture, buffer, shader).
By [using a flat array](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6028), cache performance is improved slightly, with the bonus of some memory bandwidth saved due to better resource allocation.

> A small but measurable 5% performance bump can be experienced for example in `Super Mario Odyssey`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A small but measurable 5% performance bump can be experienced, for example, in `Super Mario Odyssey`.
```

## Technical fixes, continued

> The [dynarmic](https://github.com/MerryMage/dynarmic) submodule has been recently [updated in this PR](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6047), bringing the latest changes to yuzu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [dynarmic](https://github.com/MerryMage/dynarmic) submodule has been recently [updated in this PR](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6047), merging the latest changes with yuzu.
```

Thanks to the efforts of [merry](https://github.com/MerryMage/) and [lioncash](https://github.com/lioncash), many `thumb32` instructions (a subset of ARM instructions) were implemented, increasing the amount of instructions supported for 32-bit games on yuzu.

Additionally, all floating-point instructions received minor optimizations, and a couple of bugs in the implementation of [AVX-512 extensions](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6118) were fixed too.
There was also a problem with `AMD` CPUs, where previously dynarmic disabled the use of the `BMI` instruction set (used for bit manipulation), due to being extremely slow in those processors.
However, on Zen 3 and newer, the performance of these instructions has increased considerably, so now dynarmic allows these `AMD` processors to use `BMI` instructions if the detected CPU is fast enough to perform them.

> All of these changes were possible thanks to the contribution of [Wunkolo](https://github.com/Wunkolo) to dynarmic (which eventually made it to yuzu), so shout outs for the great work!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of these changes were possible thanks to the contribution of [Wunkolo](https://github.com/Wunkolo) to dynarmic (which eventually made it to yuzu), so shoutouts for the great work!
```

Going back to kernel updates, [bunnei](https://github.com/bunnei/) [reworked and cleaned the kernel memory management code](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6099).
As the name implies, this is the part of the OS that allocates memory resources for games when they request them.
With this change, the implementation matches more closely that of the Nintendo Switch.
As always, these changes make it easier to support any future hardware revisions, along with all other kernel changes that are currently ongoing.

Bunnei also fixed [a memory leak](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6036) caused by `dummy threads`.
These dummies are used by yuzu to interact with our emulated kernel.
Every "real" emulated thread has a dummy associated with it.

> As explained in the previous progress report, yuzu utilizes fibers in order to emulate threads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As explained in the [previous progress report](https://yuzu-emu.org/entry/yuzu-progress-report-feb-2021/), yuzu utilizes fibers in order to emulate threads.
```

However, these dummy threads don't actually use fibers.
With this change, bunnei removed some unnecessary memory overhead by removing the creation of fibers (which would only be needed for "real" emulated threads), thus reducing the memory usage by a bit.

> Another bug also fixed by bunnei was related to how [JIT states are saved between page table changes](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6100).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another bug that was also fixed by bunnei was related to how [JIT states are saved between page table changes](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6100).
```

A [page table](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Page_table) is a scheme used to map physical memory into virtual memory, used to give processes the impression they're working with a unique, contiguous section of memory, regardless of where and how this memory is actually stored.
Due to the way dynarmic is coded, whenever yuzu changes the page table that is currently in use, it needs to recreate the CPU JIT.
But, until now, yuzu wasn't saving and restoring the state of this JIT properly when this happened.
However, with this change, all the context needed by the JIT is now stored and retrieved correctly.

## Input improvements

> Not all devices can do `N-key rollover`, or pressing as many keys/buttons at the same time as you want. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not all devices can do `N-key rollover`, meaning pressing many keys/buttons at the same time without some inputs being missed. 
```

For this, [german77](https://github.com/german77) implemented a [toggle to hold a button for you.](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6040)
This way you can ask yuzu to keep pressing a button, freeing your hand and devices from it, while you move to something else! 
To access this feature, right click the Modifier button in control settings, and select `Toggle button`.

{{< imgs
	"./toggle.png| Right click any button or modifier"
  >}}

For those using [Cemuhook](https://cemuhook.sshnuke.net/) to provide motion via an Android device, [german77](https://github.com/german77) has a nice stability improvement for you! 
[Each individual socket connection now needs its unique client ID.](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6004) 

> In a separate later PR, german77 [tests using a single UDP connection per server](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6127) instead of per controller, reducing the error rate thanks to simplified communications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a separate PR, german77 [tests using a single UDP connection per server](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6127) instead of per controller, reducing the error rate thanks to simplified communications.
```

The end result of this work is more stable connections for motion devices.

> Xbox 360 and Xbox One controllers were wrongly displayed as just `Xinput Controller` in our device list, causing confusion to our users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Xbox 360 and Xbox One controllers were incorrectly displayed as just `Xinput Controller` in our device list, causing confusion to our users.
```

Additionally, the default Pro Controller mapping had its face buttons swapped by mistake.
[german77](https://github.com/german77) [fixed both issues.](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6119) Bad defaults are bad.

## Future projects

> Project Hades, our rewrite of the shader decompiler in development, is taking shape.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Project Hades, our rewrite of the shader decompiler, is taking shape.
```

On the games that can be booted now, we can already measure performance increases and countless bugs fixed.

> While our graphics devs continue to rewrite all shader instructions, we can inform that the new pipeline cache for Vulkan is fully working, storing and loading just as well as OpenGL’s shader cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While our graphics devs continue to rewrite all shader instructions, we can inform everyone that the new pipeline cache for Vulkan is fully working, storing and loading just as well as OpenGL’s shader cache.
```

> Here’s a sneak pic, fresh from the source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here’s a sneak peak, fresh from the source.
```
